Which of the following is not a primitive data type in Java?
ans : C. String


Which primitive data type is used to store a single 16-bit Unicode character
ans : C. char

What is the size of the primitive data type long in Java?
Ans : B. 8 bytes

Which of the following data types is used to store a value with a floating decimal point?
Ans : A. float

Which data type in Java is used to represent true or false values?
Ans: A. boolean

What is the default value of a boolean variable in Java?
Ans : B. false

Which of the following is the correct syntax to declare a variable of type double in Java?
Ans : A. double x = 3.14

Which of the following is not a valid datatype in Java?
Ans : D. decimal

What is the size of the int datatype in Java?
Ans : B. 2 bytes

Which of the following can be used to declare a variable to store a number with a fractional part?
Ans : C. double

What is the default value of a char variable in Java?
Ans : C. ' '

Which of the following is the smallest integer data type in Java?
Ans : D. byte

Which of the following statements is true about the float data type in Java?
Ans : A. It is a single-precision 32-bit IEEE 754 floating point.

Which of the following literals can be assigned to a variable of type byte in Java?
Ans : D. 100

Which of the following data types can hold a value of 3.14?
Ans : A. float

What is the range of values that can be stored in a variable of type short in Java?
Ans : B. -32768 to 32767

Which of the following is used to declare a variable that can hold a large integer value?
Ans : D. long

What will be the output of the following code snippet?
Ans : B. 2

Which of the following datatypes has the highest precision?
Ans : D. long

Which of the following is not a keyword in Java?
Ans : B. volatile

Which of the following is the correct way to declare a variable in Java?
Ans : B. int x = 10;

What is the default value of a local variable in Java?
Ans : C. undefined

Which of the following variable names is invalid in Java?
Ans : C. 1name

Which keyword is used to declare a constant variable in Java?
Ans : A. final

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : B. 5

Which of the following is not a valid way to declare a variable in Java?
Ans : C. int z = x + y;

What is the correct syntax to declare a variable that can hold a string value?
Ans :B. String x = "Hello";

Which of the following statements about variable scope in Java is true?
Ans : D. A variable declared inside a method is accessible only within the method.

What is the correct way to declare multiple variables of the same type in Java?
Ans : D. Both A and C

Which of the following is true about instance variables in Java?
Ans : B. They are declared outside any method and inside a class.

Which of the following is not an arithmetic operator in Java?
Ans : D. &&

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : C. 60

Which of the following operators is used for concatenation of strings in Java?
Ans : B. +

What is the result of the following expression?
Ans : B. 16

Which of the following is the correct syntax for the ternary operator in Java?
Ans : A. condition ? expression1 : expression2;

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : C. 15

Which of the following is not a relational operator in Java?
Ans : D. &

Which operator is used to perform bitwise AND operation in Java?
Ans: B. &

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : A. 2.5

Which of the following operators has the highest precedence in Java?
Ans : C. ()

What is a constructor in Java?
Ans : A. A special type of method used to initialize objects.

Which of the following is true about constructors in Java?
Ans : C. Constructors are called automatically when an object is created.

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : D. Constructor called

Which of the following statements is true about default constructors?
Ans : C. A default constructor is provided by the Java compiler if no constructors are defined

Can constructors be overloaded in Java?
Ans : A. Yes

Which keyword is used to call one constructor from another in the same class?
Ans : A. this

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : B. Parameterized Constructor

Which of the following is not a property of a constructor?
Ans : C. It can return a value

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : B. 10

Which of the following is true about the use of super() in constructors?
Ans : C. It is used to call the default constructor of the superclass.

Which of the following is not a Java control flow statement?
Ans : D. repeat

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : A. x is greater than 5

Which of the following is true about the for loop in Java?
Ans : C. It is used to execute a block of code only if a condition is true.

What is the output of the following code?
Ans : A. 0 1 2 3 4

Which keyword is used to exit a loop in Java?
Ans : B. break

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : A. 1 2

Which of the following statements is true about the switch statement in Java?
Ans : B. It can evaluate expressions of type byte, short, char, int, enum, String, and some wrapper classes.

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : C. Wednesday


Which of the following loops will execute the code block at least once?
Ans : C. do-while loop

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : B. 0 1 2

Which of the following statements is true about classes in Java?
Ans : B. A class is a blueprint for creating objects

Which keyword is used to create an object in Java?
Ans : C. new

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : B. Hello World

Which of the following statements is true about objects in Java?
Ans : A. Objects are instances of a class

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : A. 5

Which of the following is used to access members of an object in Java?
Ans : D. .

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : B. 10

Which of the following is not a valid way to create an object in Java?
Ans : D. A obj = A();

Which of the following statements is true about instance variables in Java?
Ans : C. They are declared inside a class but outside any method.

What is the purpose of the this keyword in Java?
Ans : A. To refer to the current class.

Which keyword is used to inherit a class in Java?
Ans : C. extends

Which of the following statements is true about inheritance in Java?
Ans : B. A subclass inherits all the members of the superclass except constructors

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : B. Class B

Which of the following is a type of inheritance not supported in Java?
Ans : B. Multiple inheritance through classes

What is the purpose of the super keyword in Java?
Ans : D. Both B and C


What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : C. Constructor A
         Constructor B

		 
Which of the following is not a benefit of inheritance?
Ans : C. Multiple inheritance through classes

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : 	A. 10

Which of the following is true about method overriding in Java?
Ans : A. The method in the subclass must have the same name as the method in the superclass.

Which of the following statements is true about the instanceof operator in Java?
Ans : A. It is used to check if an object is an instance of a class or interface.

What is polymorphism in Java?
Ans : 	B. The ability of an object to take on many forms. 

Which of the following statements is true about method overloading in Java?
Ans : A. Method overloading is a form of runtime polymorphism.


Which of the following is an example of runtime polymorphism in Java?
Ans : C. Method overriding

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : B. Class B

Which keyword is used to achieve dynamic method dispatch in Java?
Ans : D. extend

Which of the following statements is true about interfaces in Java?
Ans : A. An interface can have only abstract methods

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : B. Class B

Which of the following statements is true about method overriding in Java?
Ans : 	A. The method in the subclass must have the same return type as the method in the superclass.

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : C. Class C

Which of the following is a benefit of polymorphism in Java?
Ans : C. It enhances the flexibility and extensibility of the code.

What is abstraction in Java?
Ans :A. The process of hiding the implementation details and showing only functionality

Which of the following is true about abstract classes in Java?
Ans : B. An abstract class can have both abstract and concrete methods.

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : C. Class B

Which keyword is used to declare an abstract method in Java?
Ans :C. abstract

Which of the following statements is true about interfaces in Java?
Ans : C. An interface can extend multiple interfaces	 

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : C. Class B

Which of the following is not allowed in a Java interface?
Ans :D. Constructor

What is the purpose of the default keyword in a Java interface?
Ans : A. To declare a default method that can be overridden by implementing classes.

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : C. Compilation error

Which of the following statements is true about abstract classes and interfaces in Java?
Ans : A. An abstract class can implement an interface

What is encapsulation in Java?
Ans : B. The process of creating a class with multiple methods

Which of the following concepts promotes encapsulation in Java?
Ans : D. Abstract classes

Which access specifier restricts access the most in Java?
Ans : C. private

What is the purpose of using private access specifier for variables in Java?
Ans : C. To make the variable accessible only within the same class.

Which of the following is a benefit of encapsulation in Java?
Ans : B. Enhanced security

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : C. 10

Which of the following statements is true about encapsulation?
Ans : C. Encapsulation helps in achieving data hiding and abstraction.

Which of the following is an example of encapsulation in Java?
Ans : A. Using private variables and public methods

What is the role of getter and setter methods in encapsulation?
Ans : C. Getter methods are used to access private variables D. Setter methods are used to declare variables.

Which of the following is not an advantage of encapsulation?
Ans : D. Decreased modularity

Which access modifier restricts access the least in Java?
Ans : A. private

Which of the following is true about the private access modifier in Java?
Ans : A. It allows access only within the same class

Which access modifier is used when no modifier is specified in Java?
Ans : D. default (package-private)

What is the default access modifier for variables and methods in Java classes?
Ans : D. default (package-private)

Which of the following is true about the protected access modifier in Java?
Ans : C. It allows access within subclasses and classes in the same package.

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : C. 10

Which access modifier is used to restrict access within the same package and subclasses?
Ans : B. protected

What will be the output of the following code?
Ans : A. Compilation error

Which access modifier allows a variable or method to be accessed from any class in the Java Virtual 
Machine (JVM)?
Ans : C. public

Which of the following is true about the default (package-private) access modifier in Java?
Ans : B. It allows access within the same package

121. What is an array in Java?
Ans : A. A collection of variables of the same type

122. How do you declare an array in Java?
Ans: B. int arr[];

123. What is the length of an array in Java?
Ans : A. It is the total number of elements in the array

124. Which of the following is true about the default values of array elements in Java?
Ans : A. They are null for reference types and 0 for numeric types

125. How can you initialize an array in Java?
Ans : C. int[] arr = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5};

126. How do you access the elements of an array in Java?
Ans : C. By using the index of the element enclosed in square brackets ([])

127. What happens if you try to access an index that is out of the bounds of the array in Java?
Ans : C. It throws an ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException.

128. Which of the following statements is true about multidimensional arrays in Java?
Ans : B. Elements are stored in a contiguous memory location

129. How do you find the length of the second dimension of a two-dimensional array arr in Java?
Ans : B. arr[1].length;

130. What is the correct way to pass an array as an argument to a method in Java?
Ans : B. void method(int[] arr) { ... }

131. Which of the following is a valid way to declare a string in Java?
Ans : B. String str = new String("Hello");

132. How do you find the length of a string in Java?
Ans : B. str.length()

133. What is the output of str.substring(1, 3) if str = "Hello"?
Ans : B. "el"

134. Which of the following methods can be used to compare two strings in Java?
Ans : A. ==

135. What is the result of the following code?
Ans : A. true

136. What is the result of the following code?
Ans : B. false

137. How do you convert a string to uppercase in Java?
Ans :C. str.toUpperCase()

138. How do you concatenate two strings in Java?
Ans :  D. Both A and B

139. What does the trim() method do in Java?
Ans : B. Removes leading and trailing spaces from the string

140. Which method is used to find the first occurrence of a character in a string?
Ans : B. firstIndex()

141. What is the superclass of all exceptions in Java?
Ans : A. Throwable

142. Which of the following is an unchecked exception?
Ans : C. NullPointerException

143. Which keyword is used to handle exceptions in Java?
Ans : Catch

144. What will happen if an exception is not caught in a program?
Ans : A. The program will terminate normally

145. Which block can be used to perform cleanup operations after an exception is thrown?
Ans : D. finally

146. What is the correct order of blocks when handling exceptions in Java?
Ans : A. try, catch, finally

147. Which of the following exceptions is thrown when an array is accessed with an illegal index?
Ans : B. ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException

148. Which statement is true about the finally block?
Ans : C. It is executed whether an exception is thrown or not.

149. How do you create a custom exception in Java?
Ans : A. Extend the Exception class

150. Which of the following is true about the throws keyword?
Ans : B. It is used to declare that a method can throw an exception.

151. Which interface must be implemented by a class to create a new thread?
Ans : A. Runnable

152. Which method is used to start a thread execution?
Ans : B. start()

153. Which of the following is not a valid state of a thread?
Ans : D. Blocked

154. What will happen if we directly call the run() method instead of start() on a thread object?
Ans : B. The code inside run() will be executed in the current thread

155. Which of the following is used to obtain a lock on an object?
Ans : A. synchronized block

156. Which method is used to make a thread wait until another thread completes its execution?
Ans : D. join()

157. What does the yield() method do?
Ans : C. Causes the currently executing thread object to temporarily pause and allow other threads to 
execute.

158. Which of the following is true about the sleep() method?
Ans : B. It does not release the lock on the object.

159. Which exception is thrown when a thread is waiting, sleeping, or doing some processing, and it is 
interrupted?
Ans : A. InterruptedException

160. Which of the following is true about thread priority?
Ans : B. Thread priority can be changed using the setPriority() method.


161. Which of the following is not a part of the Java Collections Framework?
Ans : C. HashTable

162. Which interface provides the basic operations for managing a collection of elements?
Ans : C. Collection

163. Which class is synchronized in the Java Collections Framework?
Ans : C. Vector

164. Which method is used to add an element to a specific position in an ArrayList?
Ans : B. add()

165. Which collection class allows you to store key-value pairs and access them by key?
Ans : A. Set

166. What is the default initial capacity of an ArrayList?
Ans : B. 10

167. Which method is used to remove all elements from a collection?
Ans : B. clear()

168. Which of the following classes implements the Queue interface?
Ans : C. LinkedList

169. How can you iterate over a HashSet?
Ans : D. All of the above

170. What does the peek() method do in a queue?
Ans : B. Returns the head of the queue without removing it

171. Which of the following classes is a part of the Java Collections Framework but is not synchronized?
Ans : D. Stack

172. Which of the following methods is used to obtain the number of elements in a collection?
Ans : A. size()

173. What is the time complexity of the get() method in an ArrayList?
Ans : C. O(log n)

174. Which collection class maintains the order of insertion?
Ans : B. TreeSet


175. Which of the following classes provides a resizable array and is not synchronized?
Ans : A. ArrayList

176. Which of the following is a valid declaration of a generic HashMap in Java?
Ans : C. HashMap<K, V> map = new HashMap<K, V>();

177. Which method is used to check if a collection is empty?
Ans : B. isEmpty()


178. What is the difference between HashMap and TreeMap?
Ans : B. TreeMap maintains order, HashMap does not

179. Which interface does EnumSet implement?
Ans : B. List

180. Which method is used to remove a specific element from a HashSet?
Ans : B. remove()

181. Which of the following is a new feature introduced in Java 8?
Ans :B. Lambda Expressions

182. What is the purpose of the default keyword in interfaces in Java 8?
Ans : D. To indicate that a method should not be overridden

183. Which new interface in Java 8 allows us to work with collections in a functional style?
Ans : B. Stream

184. What is the purpose of the Optional class introduced in Java 8?
Ans : D. To support optional interfaces

185. Which method in the Stream interface is used to filter elements based on a given predicate?
Ans : A. filter()

186. How can you create a Stream from a collection in Java 8?
Ans : A. Stream.of(collection)

187. Which functional interface in Java 8 has a method with no arguments and returns a value?
Ans : C. Function

188. What is the return type of the map method in the Stream interface?
Ans : Ans : A. List

189. Which new date and time API was introduced in Java 8?
Ans : A. java.util.Date

190. Which annotation can be used to repeat annotations in Java 8?
Ans : D. @Multiple

191. Which class is used to represent a compiled regular expression in Java?
Ans : B. Matcher

192. Which method in the Pattern class is used to compile a regular expression?
Ans : C. pattern()

193. What does the matches() method in the Matcher class do?
Ans : A. Returns true if the entire region matches the pattern


194. Which of the following regular expression patterns matches any digit?
Ans : A. \d

195. How do you create a Matcher object from a Pattern?
Ans : C. Pattern.matcher(CharSequence)

196. Which method in the Matcher class is used to find the next subsequence of the input sequence that 
matches the pattern?
Ans: D. next()

197. What does the regular expression ^abc match?
Ans : A. abc at the beginning of a line

198. Which of the following is a greedy quantifier in regular expressions?
Ans : D. *?

199. What does the regular expression a{2,4} match?
Ans : A. Exactly two a characters

200. Which method is used to replace all occurrences of a pattern in the input sequence with a 
replacement string?
Ans : A. replaceAll()
